HIV or human immunodeficiency viruses is the cause of AIDS.
It can infect the bloodstream
following unprotected sex with an infected person,
exposure to infected blood,
or can be passed from an infected pregnant mother to her child.
Having unprotected sex or sharing drug injection equipment
with a person infected with HIV
are the two most common ways to become infected.
Once infected, the HIV virus attacks
and destroys the infection fighting CD4 cells
of the body's immune system.
The loss of the immune system leaves patients
vulnerable to illnesses,
Including cancer, opportunistic infections and dementia.
There is no cure for HIV AIDS
but there are treatments that slow the progression of AIDS
by limiting the number of immune cells that are destroyed.
The body can then replace the ones that are lost.
There are combinations of drugs used to treat HIV
called cocktails or triple therapy.
These cocktails attack HIV in different ways
and protect the immune system
so it can continue to fight infections.
One part of the cocktail or triple therapy
is called a protease inhibitor.
A chemical called protease
is used to clip the HIV protein
into strands that contain a new virus,
which are then released into the body to do more damage.
Protease inhibitors stop this step
and prevent the manufacture and release of new viruses.
Protease inhibitors are the part of the HIV cocktail
that prevents HIV from sending out new HIV cells.